Hello, my name is Heather and
I'm the Vice President of
Security Engineering at Google.
PII has been an important
topic on the internet
since the beginning of the internet.
And we have been talking about
increasingly sophisticated ways to protect
that data over time.
When we think about collecting
PII on behalf of another person,
we should make sure we're very
deliberate about how it's handled and
where it's stored, and that we understand
where it's stored all the time.
Depending on what kind of role you're in,
you might also need to protect that
data to comply with regulation or law.
And so, it's important to understand
how the data relates to some of those
obligations.
If an organization fails
to meet their obligations,
a number of things might happen.
First, you might see a government
regulator become more interested in
understanding the practices around
how a company is handling data.
Secondly, consumers, customers,
businesses may actually begin
to directly inquire of the company
how they're handling data.
And this may become part of
the customer relationship and
increasingly important if
that data is very sensitive.
And third,
the last consequence is legal action.
And it's not uncommon for
us to see victims of cybersecurity
incidents now suing companies for
mishandling their data.
You can keep up to date with compliance,
regulation and laws around PII
by consulting the relevant website in the
jurisdiction that you have a question for.
Many government websites now
post the laws, regulations, and
compliance requirements for
data that's being handled.
The regulations and laws that govern how
PII can be handled are very complex,
all over the world, countries, states,
counties are regulating
it at different levels.
It's important to understand and
to be aware that these laws exist.
However, if you need to ask
a question about a specific law,
it's important to seek advice from legal
counsel for that particular jurisdiction.
It may be very different than
the jurisdiction that you're in.